# Cancer3D_validation
This repository contains the code to validate the 3D hybrid and continuous model results as discusses in Model Validation section of the paper.
This repo contains three python scripts, details of them are described below:
1. continuous_val.py: This script generates the result of continuous model. The result is saved in two files named 'cell_count_6_receptors.csv' and 'cell_count_24_receptors.csv', which will be later used to generate validation plot.
2. 3Dhybrid_val.py: This script generates the result of 3D hybrid model. The result is saved in two files named 'data.txt' in the folders '06receptors/base/' and '24receptors/base' respectively, which will be later used to generate validation plot.
3. plot_validation.py: This scripts used the files generated by continuous model and 3D hybrid model and generate a figure named 'validation_combined.png' which valides the results of both the models with the findings of lab experiment as mentioned in the Model Validation section of the paper.

## Steps to validate the results of Cancer3D model

The files in this repo assumes the use of Linux as an operating system.

1. Generate the results of continuous model by executing the following command in the terminal:
    
   python3 continuous_val.py
   
2. Generate the results of 3D hybrid model by executing the following command in the terminal:

   python3 3Dhybrid_val.py
   
   PS: The code first install the dependencies cmake, gnu and g++.
       The execution of this script may take several minutes.
       The results presented in the paper shows the median and confidence interval of 25 simulations of the same code. Results may slight vary because this code is running the simulation for only one time.
       
3. Generate the validation plot by executing the following command in the terminal:

   python2 plot_validation.py
   
The resulting figure 'validation_combined.png' is saved in the root folder.